# Live Football World Cup Scoreboard

## Summary

This is a simple project, consisting of a library that manages live football World Cup match scores.
The project consists of:

- the main package with the production code
- unit tests
- README.md documenting project summary, assumptions, reasoning and trade-offs made
- AI.md documenting the usage of the AI tools - summary, prompts and artifacts

## Decisions

1. Two types of AI tools were used for this project - Gemini in the browser and IntelliJ's Copilot
2. Java 17 is used:
    - As it is one of the latest long-term support versions and provides modern language features
    - The rest of the services managed by the team use at least Java 17 (from what I've heard) - this makes the library
      compatible
3. Spring framework is not used for this project [AI.md / Gemini / Question 1]:
    - Spring would add unnecessary complexity, slower startup time, a higher memory footprint and reduced
      transparency - it could be an overkill for the simple library
    - Spring/Spring Boot could be an advantage when DI, autoconfiguration or integration with other Spring features
      would be needed
4. The project consists of a single domain.
5. In the service, the domain-specific objects are used. Simple input mapping and validation is added in the
   ScoreboardController class (simulation of the real controller).
6. Scoreboard implementation is not generated by AI. It is implemented manually (single-threaded assumption at the
   beginning) and reviewed by Copilot.
7. {homeName_visitorName} is used as the match identifier. It will always be unique, as only active matches are stored.
   It is impossible for one team to play two matches at the same time. It is easier to find a match by the participant
   names.
8. decreaseScore() and increaseScore() are used to implement the "Update Score" functionality. It simulates the
   real-life example, as the scores can only be increased by one (goal for the team) or decreased by one (VAR decision).
   Due to that, the signature of the method is simpler (no scoreValue parameter needed).
9. Two update score implementation approaches were considered:
    - Use the MatchId directly to identify the match and update the score. In this case, the match lookup would be much
      faster. But at the same time the "API" is a bit more complicated - both participants must be provided and the
      participant for which the score is changed
    - Use the MatchParticipant objects to identify the match and update the score. The hashMap lookup is a bit slower (
      iteration through the entire key set). However, the "API" requires only the name of the scoring team.
    - It was decided to go with the first option - the World Cup matches collection would have a limited number of keys.
      In the future, a redesign could be considered where a much bigger number of concurrent matches could be
      possible. [AI.md / Gemini / Question 2].
10. It was decided to use a simple numeric value for identifying the match order. Each match-starting method invocation
    assigns the current value to the given match and increments the value.
11. It was decided to use a synchronization block instead of ReentrantLock [AI.md / Copilot / Question 10 - 12]:
    - It is a simple class, no more sophisticated functions of ReentrantLock (tryLock, timed/interruptible locking/
      Conditions) could be utilized
    - Boilerplate code (try-catch, .lock(), .unlock()) is reduced
    - Synchronizing all methods guarantees appropriate method ordering and allows the use of simpler types for the
      matches
      collection and matchOrder variable (HashMap instead of ConcurrentHashMap and long instead of AtomicLong)

## Additional functionality - List<Match> getTheMostInterestingMatches()

This method takes no parameters and returns the list of matches (not sorted) whose total score is bigger than or equal
to the average score of all matches.
It was decided to use the >= operator, as assuming all matches are tied, we would get an empty list (which is maybe
sometimes expected, though).
